# Examples

**[Structs and enums in JSON](json.md)**: The representation chosen by
[`serde_json`](https://github.com/serde-rs/json) for structs and enums. Other
human-readable data formats are encouraged to follow an analogous approach where
possible.

**[Enum representations](enum-representations.md)**: Externally tagged,
internally tagged, adjacently tagged, and untagged ways of representing an enum
in self-describing formats.

**[Default value for a field](attr-default.md)**: Some examples of the
`#[serde(default)]` attribute.

**[Handwritten generic type bounds](attr-bound.md)**: Some unusual scenarios in
which Serde's derive infers the wrong generic type bounds. The impl bounds can
be replaced with handwritten ones using the `#[serde(bound)]` attribute.

**[Deserialize for custom map type](deserialize-map.md)**: Detailed explanation
of each step involved in deserializing a map.

**[Array of values without buffering](stream-array.md)**: Deserialize the
maximum value of an array of integers without holding the whole array in memory
at once. This approach can be adapted to handle a variety of other situations in
which data needs to be processed while being deserialized instead of after.

**[Serialize enum as number](enum-number.md)**: A macro to impl `Serialize` and
`Deserialize` for a C-like enum in a way that represents it as a `u64` across
all data formats.

**[Serialize fields as camelCase](attr-rename.md)**: One common application of
the `#[serde(rename)]` attribute.

**[Skip serializing field](attr-skip-serializing.md)**: Some examples of the
`#[serde(skip_serializing)]` and `#[serde(skip_serializing_if)]` attributes.

**[Derive for remote crate](remote-derive.md)**: Deriving `Serialize` and
`Deserialize` implementations for a type in somebody else's crate.

**[Manually deserialize struct](deserialize-struct.md)**: The long form of the
`Deserialize` impl generated by derive for a simple struct.

**[Discarding data](ignored-any.md)**: Using `IgnoredAny` to efficiently discard
data from a deserializer.

**[Transcode one format into another](transcode.md)**: Use the
[serde-transcode](https://github.com/sfackler/serde-transcode) crate to stream
input in one format to output in another format efficiently.

**[Deserialize either a string or a struct](string-or-struct.md)**: The
[`docker-compose.yml`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/#/build)
configuration file has a "build" key which can be either a string or a struct.

**[Convert error types](convert-error.md)**: Map a Serde error from some format
into a Serde error for some other format using `Error::custom`.

**[Date in a custom format](custom-date-format.md)**: Handle a
[`chrono`](https://github.com/chronotope/chrono) `DateTime` formatted with a
custom string representation.

**[Validate containers on
deserialization](validate-containers-on-deserialization.md)**: Validate
a type after deserializing the underlying encoding.
