# Examples

**[Default value for a field](attr-default.md)**: Some examples of the
`#[serde(default)]` attribute.

**[Handwritten generic type bounds](attr-bound.md)**: Some unusual scenarios in
which Serde codegen infers the wrong generic type bounds. The impl bounds can be
replaced with handwritten ones using the `#[serde(bound)]` attribute.

**[Deserialize for custom map type](deserialize-map.md)**: Detailed explanation
of each step involved in deserializing a map.

**[Serialize for custom map type](serialize-map.md)**: Other complex types
(sequences, structs, tuple structs) are very similar to this as well.

**[Array of values without buffering](stream-array.md)**: Deserialize the
maximum value of an array of integers without holding the whole array in memory
at once. This approach can be adapted to handle a variety of other situations in
which data needs to be processed while being deserialized instead of after.

**[Serialize enum as string](enum-str.md)**: A macro to impl `Serialize` and
`Deserialize` for a C-like enum in a way that represents it as a string across
all data formats.

**[Serialize enum as number](enum-number.md)**: A macro to impl `Serialize` and
`Deserialize` for a C-like enum in a way that represents it as a `u64` across
all data formats.

**[Serialize fields as camelCase](attr-rename.md)**: One common application of
the `#[serde(rename)]` attribute.

**[Skip serializing field](attr-skip-serializing.md)**: Some examples of the
`#[serde(skip_serializing)]` and `#[serde(skip_serializing_if)]` attributes.

**[De/Serialize for other crate](newtype-wrapper.md)**: Implementing `Serialize`
and `Deserialize` for a type in a different crate by wrapping it in a newtype
wrapper.

**[Manually deserialize struct](deserialize-struct.md)**: The long form of the
`Deserialize` impl generated by codegen for a simple struct.

**[Using Serde trait objects](trait-objects.md)**: The
[erased-serde](https://github.com/dtolnay/erased-serde) crate provides
type-erased Serde traits that can be used as `&Serialize`/`&Serializer` or
`Box<Serialize>`/`Box<Serializer>`.

**[Transcode one format into another](transcode.md)**: Use the
[serde-transcode](https://github.com/sfackler/serde-transcode) crate to stream
input in one format to output in another format efficiently.
